World commerce is the best e-commerce WordPress plugin around.
It can be intimidating at first for developers but it's one of the easiest plugins to work with.
Unlike other plugins WordPress is well documented and coded unlike buddy press we can find a lot of
the answers to our questions online.
If your theme supports Web commerce then you would be adding a whole lot of value to your theme.
It's almost a standard today to support commerce and to come bundled with it.
If you're not familiar with e-commerce then let's take a quick tour.
Wu commerce allows you to convert your site into a store to sell physical and or digital products.
It has over 21 million downloads and powers over 28 percent of all stores.
You'll even find a list of partners and supporters of Wu commerce.
This is one of the reasons why Wu commerce is well documented and supported a lot of companies and individuals
rely on this software to work with so many people relying on such a software for generating revenue.
You can imagine the amount of work needed to extend it.
This course isn't about teaching you how to use Wu commerce.
There are a lot of courses out there that teach you that what you'll be learning here is how to use
it in theme and plugin development.
Let's get started.
The very first step is to install an activated.
Go to the admin dashboard and navigate to plugins add new search for the plugin will commerce install
and activate it
this plugin is very big so it might take some time to install it.
Currently this plugin is on Version 3 which is very new and has a lot of breaking changes but all the
code we write will be compatible with this version after activation you'll be taken to a set of wizard.
I want you to go through it with all the default settings.
I didn't really bother going through the settings as I just use the defaults.
Nothing special after going through the wizard.
Commerce will also generate some pages.
This is very important.
Just like Buddy press will commerce needs to generate some pages to display the content it generates
and manages for you so be sure to generate all the pages it needs or else this won't work for things
like the payment gateway.
I'm going to use paypal.
It doesn't really matter at this point.
You can always configure this later to your preferred payment method.
After going through the walkthrough you can begin with preparing our theme for compatibility with commerce.
You'll notice we have a couple of messages here warning us about extra steps we need to take before
we can fully use will commerce.
You may end up getting a message telling you that the current theme does not declare war.
Commerce support you may even be recommended a theme since we're developing our own theme.
We won't take interest in the theme.
It should be noted that most themes are compatible with commerce by default.
Keep in mind that world commerce is a WordPress plugin and uses the same functions and hooks as any
other plugin.
So even if we don't make any changes to our theme we'll commerce will work as usual if we want to override
some of Commerce's behavior.
Then we'll need to declare support for it.
That's simple to do.
All we have to do is call the ad theme support function inside the after setup theme hook.
Let's do that now open the setup file and call that function right after the other support functions
pass and woo commerce all this does is tell you commerce that this theme fully supports its features
and design after routing it.
We can now begin with development to make things easier.
I'm going to modify the menu to include the cart checkout and shop pages that Woo commerce generated.
Make sure to save the menu.
The very last thing I want to do is import some dummy data.
Luckily for us we'll commerce already provides us with some dummy data we can use to test our theme
with commerce go through tools import that will commerce plug and provides to importers one for products
and one for rates.
We won't be dealing with taxes in this course.
We only need to import some products run the Wu commerce product importer.
From here you can import a CSB file with your products.
You'll be asked to upload a file go to the Wu commerce plugin folder inside you'll find a folder called
sample data this will contain quite a few files but we're only interested in the sample underscore products
dot CSC file upload this file after uploading it you'll be asked to map the values mapping is the process
of making sure the values inside the file are correctly inputted into the correct database columns.
If the file that's exported uses the same version as the Commerce version the file is being imported
in then you won't have to worry about mapping the value should match up fine.
This is usually for product files that were exported with earlier versions of commerce.
The mapping may not correctly match with the current database design since we're using a sample product
file from New Commerce.
We don't have to worry about this since it's maintained by the Commerce team.
They'll usually make sure the file matches the current Commerce version.
We'll just leave everything as is and continue.
This may take a while.
Just be patient.
You should see a success message and be taken to the list of products.
If not then you can click on the products menu on the sidebar.
We now have a couple of dummy products imported which is nice.
With that finished let's take a look at what we have.
Go to the front end of the site and view the shop page you'll see some products imported.
Which is what we want.
You'll notice that the page really isn't that well spaced and our footer is broken.
This is because of the CSX.
It makes the product page for width which pushes the sidebar to the footer.
This only happens on the shop and single product pages.
If you were to view the checkout and cart pages you'll notice everything looks fine.
So what is going on here.
Well let's take a look at the cart page and try editing it.
You'll notice that this is just normal page with a short code inserted that displays the carts contents.
You can modify this page anywhere you like.
I'm going to make it full width and press update.
I'm going to do the same for the checkout page
these two pages can be fully controlled like this.
However if you were to edit the shop page you'll notice you can't edit the page the same way as before.
There is no short code the reason for this is because the shop page generates more dynamic content than
the other pages.
Because of this it needs more flexibility than a simple short code.
This is why we get different markup than the other pages in the next lecture.
We'll tackle this problem and make everything fit well with our theme.